Onelogin (#1)
taksan/authenticator-saml-onelogin: google-workspace-setup.md

# Google Workspace setup instructions

> These instructions are applicable to configure Google Workspace as the IDP for XWiki

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These instructions will guide you while configuring Google Workspace as the IDP for XWiki.
```

using this plugin.  

> The following configurations are required in the xwiki.cfg file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following configurations are required in the `xwiki.cfg` file.
```

## Required properties

```sh
xwiki.authentication.authclass=com.xwiki.authentication.saml.XWikiSAML20Authenticator

xwiki.authentication.saml2.idp.single_sign_on_service.url=https://accounts.google.com/o/saml2/idp?idpid=<Copy from google>
xwiki.authentication.saml2.idp.entityid=https://accounts.google.com/o/saml2?idpid=<Copy from google>
xwiki.authentication.saml2.sp.entityid=<any arbitrary string - you must use this when google asks>
xwiki.authentication.saml2.idp.x509cert=the certificate to validate\
requests. Use backslash\

> for line breaks

Reviewer: To maintain consistency, use `<>` to mark a "string" that must be replaced.

> xwiki.authentication.saml2.sp.assertion_consumer_service.url=https://<you wiki domain>/bin/loginsubmit/XWiki/XWikiLogin

Reviewer: Copy pasta?
```suggestion
xwiki.authentication.saml2.sp.assertion_consumer_service.url=https://<your wiki domain>/bin/loginsubmit/XWiki/XWikiLogin
```

+ The format will look like the following:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<md:EntityDescriptor xmlns:md="urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:metadata" entityID="https://accounts.google.com/o/saml2?idpid=<IDPID>" validUntil="...">
  <md:IDPSSODescriptor WantAuthnRequestsSigned="false" protocolSupportEnumeration="urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:protocol">
    <md:KeyDescriptor use="signing">
      <ds:KeyInfo xmlns:ds="http://www.w3.org/2000/09/xmldsig#">
        <ds:X509Data>
          <ds:X509Certificate>Copy this value to property xwiki.authentication.saml2.idp.x509cert</ds:X509Certificate>
        </ds:X509Data>
      </ds:KeyInfo>
    </md:KeyDescriptor>
    <md:NameIDFormat>urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:1.1:nameid-format:emailAddress</md:NameIDFormat>
    <md:SingleSignOnService Binding="urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:bindings:HTTP-Redirect" Location="https://accounts.google.com/o/saml2/idp?idpid=<IDPID>"/>
    <md:SingleSignOnService Binding="urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:bindings:HTTP-POST" Location="https://accounts.google.com/o/saml2/idp?idpid=<IDPID>"/>
  </md:IDPSSODescriptor>
</md:EntityDescriptor>
```

> The value of Location field of `urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:bindings:HTTP-POST` is xwiki.authentication.saml2.idp.single_sign_on_service.url.

Reviewer: The English here is kinda weird, suggestion:
```suggestion
Look for the `<md:SingleSignOnService>` XML Tag with the `Binding="urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:bindings:HTTP-POST"` attribute. The value of its `Location` attribute will be used on the `xwiki.authentication.saml2.idp.single_sign_on_service.url` property.
```

> `entityID` value in the first line should be set on `xwiki.authentication.saml2.idp.entityid`.

Reviewer: Same weird English as above, complementing:
```suggestion
Simiarly, look for the `<md:EntityDescriptor>` XML Tag at the beginning of the file. The value of its `entityID` attribute will be used on the `xwiki.authentication.saml2.idp.entityid` property.
```

> 2. Next to the service provider page:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Next, on the "Service provider details" page:
```

Reviewer: Number `2.` is repeated. Should be `3.`

Number `3.` below will need to be fixed too.

> * ACS URL: https://(your wiki domain)/bin/loginsubmit/XWiki/XWikiLogin

Reviewer: Keeping consistency
```suggestion
* ACS URL: `https://<your wiki domain>/bin/loginsubmit/XWiki/XWikiLogin`
```

> * Entity ID: the same value present on xwiki.authentication.saml2.sp.entityid

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Entity ID: the same value present on the `xwiki.authentication.saml2.sp.entityid` property.
```

* Name ID Format: EMAIL

> * Name ID Field: Basic Information > Primary email

Reviewer: Keep your markdown consistent, in some places you use `*` for lists, others `+`.

![google_app_service_provider](images/google_app_service_provider.png)
![google_app_service_provider_continue](images/google_app_service_provider_continue.png)

3. Attribute mapping:

* Primary Email -> email
* First Name -> firstName

> * Last Name -> lastName

Reviewer: Backticks

> If you created the custom field XWikiGroups, set up the following attribute mapping:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you created the custom field XWikiGroups, set up the following attribute mapping, replacing the name with whichever name you used:
```

* XWikiGroups -> XWikiGroups 

![google_app_mapping](images/google_app_mapping.png)

> + Overview

Reviewer: Loose string, means nothing.

Write something like: "This is how your overview page should look like".
